Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we are going to go over what document object model is.
All right, so before starting this lecture, I have to say that.
In order to succeed in the topic of document, object model and what it does for short, it's called
dumb, you should have intermediate level achievements, this knowledge.
And if you're interested, I do have two courses on the topic of e-mail and services.
You can go ahead and check him out.
All right.
So what is dumb or document?
Object.
Model what dumb links JavaScript to e-mail and access.
Now HDMI on Cyesis when they are linked to the JavaScript JavaScript, they are converted to JS objects
and these objects have different properties.
Right now, Dom is a structure representation of an HTML document.
We can use JavaScript to manipulate the domain.
The dumb is object oriented.
It means that all the nodes have sets of properties and methods.
Now we will work a ton in the DOM, so do not worry if anything is confusing for now.
Just know that Dom is the entry point of JavaScript getting linked to e-mail, Unsere says.
All right, so let's go ahead and let's check out, for example, in the consulate, what I'm going
to do is I'm just going to go ahead.
I'm going to say cancel the dinner and I'm going to provide it with a document.
Document, all right, and let's save it.
And this is what we get.
OK.
And in here we can see there is a lot of information.
And I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to increase.
This window.
All right, so now you guys can see that I'm just going to go ahead.
You know what?
I'm going to go for full screen.
All right.
So in here, we have a euro which says where the page is located, we have active element is the body,
which is the active element, and we have all our e-mail, all collections each we have e-mail had met
our title by the script, script viewport and met up.
And you guys can see that whenever I had document, no document is the deep part.
The document object model.
It means it grabs the document and it turns it, it converts it into objects.
Right.
And we can see all of them here.
They have an index.
This is a collection of an array.
Right.
And there is a lot of information.
We have our character set.
We have our child nodes which are which are legitimate.
And Estima.
And we can this is a report where the document is located and let's come down, let's look for something
which is and these are all the events, all the functions that we can apply when we are working with
them.
All right.
And we are going to work with with a lot of what a lot of these events with a lot of these functions
and methods throughout our projects.
Definitely.
And in here, it says this is an original document.
So this is actually what we are going to work with.
All right.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to make this smaller and bring it here.
All right, so this is done right, and this is document, this is the final document inside the JavaScript.
So what about this time of document inside the document itself?
How can we link?
The document which we just saw to the document, which is the markup, so how can we link JavaScript,
object to the HTML document, that is what Dume is all about.
So dumb allows us to link the J.S. object to the HTML duck.
All right.
This is what JavaScript allows, what Dom allows us to do.
Now, how can we do that?
We can do that through two kinds of in two steps.
First, we select and then we manipulate.
All right, or we change or we take advantage of whatever you want to call it, whatever synonym you
want to call it.
So there are different selecting methods for Dume in the JavaScript.
We have talked about one of them in the last lecture of the.
Functions chapter.
And now we are going to dive deeper into them.
OK, so the first method that I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to talk about is getting selecting
methods.
All right.
Getting HTML elements by their class.
Now, from now onwards, we are going to tap into the unlimited potential of document object model of
JavaScript.
All right.
So so the first method is how we can select esteemable elements by their class.
So what I'm going to do is the first thing that I'm going to do before going deeper into this code is
I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to paste in some HTML elements.
I'm just going to copy it and I'm going to pasted here.
So we have in each one we have a paragraph.
Each one has a class of title.
Then we have an image and we have a UL.
And inside the U.S., we have to realize, right, and we have a script.
OK, so this is our JavaScript script, and what I'm going to do is I'm going to add a style here as
well, a style tag or a style element, and I'm going to save it.
So this is what we have so far.
So I'm going to zoom in out of it and I'm going to come down and to the console.
Just come down and I'm going to let's make this window a bit bigger and the Vas code a bit smaller.
So let's come here.
All right.
So this is what we have so far and we are going to work with this.
And in this style, we are going to grab the image.
We are going to give it a height within the object fit cover.
All right.
So first off, the way that we can connect JavaScript to the JavaScript object to the document is we
have to be able to select it.
OK, then when we selected, we are going to we are going to manipulate it.
We are going to change it.
Right.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to select the heading.
So I'm going to store it inside a variable and the variable name is heading it s.
So so where is this heading located it is located inside the document.
All right, so we just saw that all this time.
They're located inside the document, which is an object of JavaScript.
And from there, we are going to we are going to use a method which is called get aliments by CLASSILY.
And this method is pretty descriptive.
Get elements by Klausener mean.
It means get elements of a class.
And in here we should pass in a class.
Now, this class has to be a like a valid Cyesis class selector.
All right.
So when we want to select a class in Cyesis, we pass in a dot and then we select that title.
But in here, because we have said it is a class name, we don't have to pass in the done, but the
concept is the same.
We just selected by the class name.
So now this H1 has been selected.
The way we can see it, the way we can know for sure that this has been selected is just to simply consider
the logic.
So we are going to say consider dialogue heading, and when I say that we are going to get an e-mail
collection, which is each one.
Let me bring this up.
Come on, buddy.
So in here, it says that it is a rich one that has a class of title, and when I hover over it, the
dogs, it's going to be highlighted.
See, so now we have successfully grabbed our each one.
All right, so this is how we can select e-mail elements by their classmate, and next up, I want to
show you how you can select e-mail elements by their names or by their ID.
And the reason that I'm not really stressing on these two methods and I'm just giving you one example,
is that we are not going to be using these methods in our projects because the newer features of JavaScript,
they have they have given us a better way of selecting HTML elements, and that is through query selector
and that is the recommended method.
All right, but these methods, you should all you should know that these methods also exist.
So let's go ahead and let's check out.
I'm just going to go ahead and comment that out.
Check out which one which one does have an I.D. So this image has an I.D. and the idea is dog dash emoji.
So the way we can select it is we have to store it inside a variable so we can we can define a variable
using let or const.
If it is const, we should not reassign it later.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to say, so this is an image, I'm just going to call it image
or I'm just going to say dog I M.G., OK, and we are going to go into a word document.
Now, the document is the part that is the demo document and we are going to say get aliment by Idy.
And in here we are going to pass on the idea and we we are going to save.
So how do we know that we have successfully accessed the idea of that image?
We just pass in the image in here, the image variable.
And now if I just go ahead and bring it down, you guys can see this is the image element that we have.
And when I hover over this image is highlighted, this is how we can select the stimulus elements using
their ID.
There is another selector that is the query selector all.
And I'm just going to go ahead and copy it and I'm going to pasted right here now.
Query selector all and query selector.
These are the recommended methods.
It selects all the elements that share that selector.
So whatever that selector may be, if the selector is a class selector and ID selector, an element
selector, whatever that is, when they share it, the query selector is going to grab all of it.
All right, so if we come here, we can see that we have three allies in here and these are the dark
traits, right?
I think.
Doc, yeah, the it doesn't have a class.
We are going to call them Doc Treats, OK, and all three of them have the same class.
So how would we select that?
If we use the single query selector without the all keyword, it is going to select the first one.
But when we do the query selector all it is going to select all of them.
So we are going to say let dog traits be equal to first.
Let's grab this document and from there we are going to say query selector or so.
Whenever you do query selector, you don't you're not limited to using classes or IDs.
You can use any valid xerces selector.
So in here you can do Sudoku versus pseudo aliments.
You can even do the universal selector, you can do classes, IDE's element selector.
You can do whatever you want as long as that selector is a valid Cyesis selector.
So now we are going to grab it by the class.
And this class is very familiar too, because this is how we select Estima elements using CSF and this
is the part where JavaScript is linked, is connected to this as well through the dumb.
So through the document, JavaScript is linked to e-mail and through these classes, JavaScript is linked
to Cyesis and also we can apply Cyesis styles inside our JavaScript document.
We are going to take a look at that as well.
So now let's go ahead and let's cancel the log, this dog trait's and let's save it.
And now we are going to get a Nobilis.
And inside here we are going to have three items.
And when I hover over them, we are going to see the first item highlighted, the second and the third.
So this is how query selector all works.
And finally, we are going to talk about overclass.
There are a lot more selections, but these but this query selector is the king of them.
All this to query selector all its it has definitely its applications, but it's not that common.
But Query Selector is the one which we are going to use a lot.
Now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to select this image based on its ID.
All right, so I'm going to do let dog I M.G. be equal to first.
Let's grab let's go inside this time of document.
And from there we are going to do query selector and that's it.
So inside the quotations here, we should do a valid e-mail, evaluate, see as a selector of Estima
elements so I can select it based on the ID, based on the source, based on the out, based on the
elements selector.
I can selected any way that I want, but I want to selected using the I.D. so I'm going to grab the
I.D. name and I'm going to paste it here now with this work.
No, it is not going to work because we talked about how inside the quotation, inside the quotes,
it is the realm of Cyesis selector and in Cyesis how do we select it is we put a hash in front of it
and when we save it and when we cancel the log it.
Dog, HMG, when we say that we have successfully selected our image, that's it for this year.
See you guys in the next one.